Title: NLP Powered Business Intelligence Applications

Project Synopsis
--------------------

Enterprises and businesses generate large volumes of transactional data which are stored in multiple data stores belonging to different applications. Business intelligence tools are used to glean actionable information from these data stores and provide KPIs, Dashboards, Reports, Analysis and other meaningful insights upon which business decisions can be made. 

Depending upon their size and complexity, some organizations choose to use the BI tools that come bundled with the individual applications, while some implement an enterprise wide business application layer that consolidates data from multiple application and generate comprehensive insights. Current business intelligence tools offer a varying level of learning curve when it comes to user experience with most of the requiring certain technical expertise in developing reports and dashboards. This presents a major dilemma since the consumers of these BI assets are the business users who do not possess the technical background and skillset to generate these BI artifacts and they are dependent on the IT users.

This project aims to simplify the process of BI reporting for businesses by developing an application which integrates with multiple backend databases, fetch the required data, and visualize the information through graphs, reports, dashboards, etc. While application will be compatible with multiple databases, the project will be limited to one or two open-source databases as a proof of concept (PostgreSQL and MySQL can be two possible candidates). The front end can be any of the popular web frontends Vue.js, Angular, React etc., coupled with an open source charting library (chart.js/Apex Charts etc.). 


The differentiating factor for this project will be to build an NLP based chatbot on top of this application through which the end user can ‘talk’ to the application and get the desired report/charts etc. built for them without requiring any technical knowledge. For example, a sales manager can ask for a quarterly revenue report aggregated on sales team level and compared with 4 previous periods, or an HR manager may ask for the top 3 reasons of sick leave request being put in by the male staff aged over 45 and will be prompted back with the required data. Tools like NLTK or SpaCy etc can be used to develop the NLP based chatbot.


Commercial Potential:
--------------------------

The project has a great commercial potential as well since it solves a real-world problem that is faced by businesses all across the globe. This project can gradually be productized by adding more features and functionalities. An interesting enhancement of this project (which can also be included during the FYP) is to add a few popular applications as the back-end databases, fetch their data through APIs, and build business intelligence artifacts by cross referencing data across applications. For example, pick accounting data from Quickbooks/Xero and sales/customer data from Hubspot (CRM) and show meaningful insights by combining data from both applications. More applications can be added to the list in the future.

